What about Job? Now, let's talk a little
bit Job. Job. Job. This one will start
balling
again. Do you know the entire story of
Job? You know what it was? I'm going to
show it to you from Job chapter 1 and
two. The story of Job was God was
defending the honor of Job. See, this is
what people don't understand. Job begins
in Job chapter 1 and two, but it tells
you something's taking place in heaven
that Job is not aware. Job doesn't see
it. Says the angels came to God. I'm
going to open it up. I'm going to show
you. And it says Satan was among them.
So notice God, angels, and Satan. Now
the Bible tells us that the duty of
Satan or the mission of Satan is to go
around the world to find people he can
destroy. 1 Peter 5:8-9. He looks for
people that he can destroy their faith.
Destroy their faith. 1 Peter 5:8-9. Be
of sober spirit. Excuse me. Be watchful.
Your adversary, the devil, prowls around
like a roaring lion. See, he's prowling.
He's looking. Who's someone that has
strong faith in God? I'm going to make
him hate God and destroy his faith.
Seeking someone to devour, but resist
him, firm in the faith, knowing that the
same experiences of suffering are being
accomplished among you, your brethren
who are in the world. Meaning, we all
suffer because Satan's trying to destroy
all of us and get us to blame God.
Because when you have a tragedy, the
last person you blame is Satan. The
first one you blame is God. Satan wins.
That's what he's trying to do. Yeah.
Yeah. See, but it wasn't God. It was
Satan. But we forget him.
No. When you bury your child, the first
one you point the finger at is you, God.
You. And Satan laughs. Exactly. Yeah.
That I win. Didn't I tell you God? He
doesn't love you. He only loves you for
what you can give him. See, I win.
That's what he tries to do. How do I
know? Because now we're going to go to
Job one.
Satan is more smart than we think and
he's more dangerous than we
think. As long as he can get God to be
blamed for the things he does, he wins.
Now, we're going to pick it up here.
Remember what Satan does? He's looking.
He's prowling. That right? It says he's
not looking. H who's a Christian who
thinks he's strong so I can destroy and
mess up his
faith? Watch here. Job 16. Listen. Now
was the day that the sons of God came to
stand before Yahweh. Now notice it's not
just God and Satan, the sons of God,
meaning angels. So the angels are
listening to this conversation. Watch
how deep it gets. Satan was among them.
And Yahweh said to Satan, "From where do
you come? What are you where are you
coming from? You're up to no good." Then
Satan answered and yahweh and said,
"Then Satan answered Yahweh and said,
"From roaming about on the earth and
walking around on it." You remember what
Peter said? Why does he do this? Why
does he roam the earth?
looking for a prey to do what? Looking
for a prey to devour. Once he finds that
prey, he's got to report back to God.
That's why God knows he's here. You're
up to no good. You're here because you
have your eyes on my servant Job. See,
God already knew, look. And Yahweh said
to Sain, "Have you set your heart on my
servant Job?" He's not asking because he
doesn't know. He's like,
"Really? You want to now test Job? You
want to now attack Job? Why? Look what
God says about Job. The angels are
listening. Huh?
Listen. God is going to say this about
Job with the angels listening. For
there's no one like him on the earth, a
blameless upright man, fearing God and
turning away from evil. Did you
understand what kind of praise it is
that God is praising a human in heaven?
Can you imagine? God in heaven says, "Do
you see Martin? You see what a wonderful
servant he is? There's no one on earth
like him who loves me. God is praising
you in heaven.
What an honor.
This is God's view of Job. He's telling
the angels, Job, there's no man like
him. He loves me and fears me unlike any
man. But now look, Satan says, "No, God,
that's not true. You don't know what
you're talking about. What do you mean?"
Sans answered Yahweh and said, "Does Job
fear God?" See, now he's getting even
the angels to doubt God. Wait, wait.
What do you mean? No, no, no, no. He
only loves you because he he you made
him a millionaire. Because you got about
a million dollars in your account and
you got a huge mansion. That's why you
love God. Take it away and watch how
he's going to curse you. You're wrong
about Job. So now it's a test. Say what
he wants to do.
I want you to see what Satan wants to
do. He not only wants to prove God wrong
and make Job hate God, he wants the
angels to doubt
God. Because angels don't know
everything. They're creatures. Only God
knows everything. And Satan was also a
righteous angel, we believe. But he too
sinned. So what he's trying to do is
he's trying to do two things. Make Job
hate God and prove God a liar to get the
angels to doubt God. Because now if God
is wrong and I'm an angel, say, "Wow,
Satan was right.
God doesn't really know everything.
Should I really be trusting God?
See how smart Satan is? He's much more
dangerous and smarter than you think.
So, what does God do? Really, this is
what you're going to do? You're trying
to get the sons of God to doubt me. And
you're trying to get them to doubt the
integrity of Job, that I'm wrong about
him, and Job is not a man of God. And
you're trying to prove me wrong. And
you're trying to make Job look bad and
make Job hate me. Go ahead and do it.
Because why? I want you now go deep.
Think. If God were to simply throw Satan
out, that would still leave doubt in the
heart of the angels.
Yeah. Why? Because I imagine someone
comes and questions my authority and
said, "Get the hell out of here. What
are you going to think of me?"
Yeah. He's what's he hiding if he's
Why did he react so angrily at what he
said? Did he hit a nerve? So God knows
Satan and God is more wise than Satan
because he's almighty. Okay. Is that how
it is? Okay. Go ahead. So what's the
story? After Satan fails the first time,
takes away his children, takes away his
money, he says, "All right, you win
here, God. You win. He you're right
about him." Now, the others are
listening to it. Huh? They can hear me.
Yeah. Okay. Just make sure you guys stay
focused. You win because I want you to
learn the lesson because I'm going to
apply to all you guys. You win. But
guess what,
God? I bet you if you let
me attack him with
sickness, let me strike him with cancer
or Alzheimer's or dementia, arthritis. I
bet you he's gonna cuss you out because
a man will do anything for his own
health. Really? You want to go that far?
You still haven't learned your lesson?
All right, go
ahead. Go ahead. But do not harm his
soul. His soul is mine. Skin for
skin. Let me afflict him. Now, guys, you
understand what you just learned
here? You understand what you just
learned? Satan has power to get you
sick. Satan has power to give you
cancer. Satan has power to cause
tsunamis. Satan has power to cause
tornadoes. Satan has because he did it.
God tells us spirit creatures, they have
powers to cause floods, wildfires,
volcanic eruptions, tsunamis, and get
you sick. So, it's not always from God.
This is what you're supposed to learn
because the first thing we do is blame
God. But God is telling you, "No, it's
not always me." There are spirit
creatures who have powers to cause a
tsunami, to cause a building to
collapse, to cause wildfires, to cause
you to get sick. It's not always
me. Because who went out and struck Job
and got him to
suffer boils that even his wife couldn't
handle looking at him because of the
pain? Satan.
Satan and Job failed again because what
happened that Satan went out from the
face of Yahweh struck Job with terrible
boils. So who got him sick?
Satan. Not
God. So how do you know that guy who has
cancer that's not from
Satan? How do you know that woman who's
got arthritis that's not from Satan? You
don't know that. Can I mention Can I ask
something? But wouldn't you say like the
Holy Spirit protects us? Like God
protects us? No. Well, you're saying God
failed Job. He didn't protect Job.
But he But Satan had to ask him for
permission to
Yep. And in the Bible, even Jesus
himself got tempted by Satan and got
killed by Satan. You think you're better
than Jesus because you're a son of God?
No. You will be tested. Technically,
Jesus didn't get killed. He was
sacrificed. Yeah, but he didn't kill
himself. That would be suicide. He had
to allow himself to be killed. Yeah.
Okay. Why do you think Peter said you
killed him? He didn't say God killed
himself. Mhm.
Right. I get your point. Yep. So, no,
you got to be careful how you No, Jesus,
yes. Could not die if he didn't want to
die, but he chose to die. But he didn't
commit suicide, what we'd call deocide.
He had to be killed. That's why Peter
says you killed him. He didn't say, "Oh,
he allowed he killed himself." No, it
doesn't work like that. But don't forget
the point. You're not better than Jesus.
If Jesus suffered, you're going to think
you're going to have a mansion on earth
and everybody's going to be, you know,
loveydvey and you're going to have a
wife and 20 kids. No, it doesn't work
like that, man. It's never worked like
that. Only those who are deceived, who
don't want to suffer. No, but Jesus
wants me rich. He wants me to have a
mansion. He wants me to have a home
that's $600,000 and remodel it and I
have million in the back. You sure
that's what Jesus wants for
you? But anyway, it's deception anyway.
But idea, watch the point though. Then
Satan went out from the presence of
Yahweh and struck Job with terrible
boils, the sole of his foot to the top
of his head. And he took a pot shirt to
scrape himself while he was still
sitting among the ashes. That's how much
pain he was in. His wife who loved him
so much. See, people don't understand
why his wife reacted this way. She loved
her husband so much. She couldn't handle
the seam and this pain. Her heart was
breaking. Her heart was breaking. Danza,
why do the Shia believe that your
mother's house is a house of
prostitution? Her heart was breaking. We
got demons manifesting, guys. Satan's
children. Because the man she loved was
suffering such a horrible affliction,
she couldn't handle it anymore. She
goes, "Okay, curse God and die so you
can be at peace." She didn't say it out
of hate for him. She said it out of pain
for him. Can you imagine? Don't you have
Have you ever had where you see a loved
one dying of cancer and so painful
you're like, "God, please let him die
already."
Has that happened? You know people like
that? Yes. That's what's happening to
her. I can't handle this. just curse and
get it over with. But here's where Job
passes the test. But he said to her,
"You speak as one of of the wickedly
foolish women speaks." Now, you're
speaking evil like a perverse woman.
Shall we indeed accept good from God and
not accept calamity? And look what God
says. And all this Job did not sin with
his lips. Okay, so what's the story now?
Now that I gave you all
this, you had now three stupid men who
thought they were wise. Three stupid men
who thought they were
wise, who thought, you know what, Job,
you must have sinned. This is their
theology. If you were righteous, like
what this guy said, Tony, this is your
theology. Won't God protect you? That
was their theology. There's no way God
would allow this to you if you haven't
sinned. You've done something evil in
your life because God protects his
people. See, that's what you said.
You just sound like those three idiots.
But I don't blame you. You're calian.
It's okay. Thanks, man. No, I'm just
saying.
Okay. Are you listening? Listen to me.
They were looking at him. What did you
do? And Job says, "I've done nothing."
No. No. It can't be. That's the story.
It can't. You must have done something
bad. No, I haven't. If I have, I'll
acknowledge it. Tell me and I'll do it.
I've always confessed to God and I've
tried to righteous, but there's no way
God could allow this to happen. You must
have done some evil. At the end, you
know what God says? You are idiots. You
don't know what the hell you're talking
about. You need to repent. The message
is not everyone who suffers is because
they're evil. Many suffer because
they're righteous. Because Satan wants
to destroy your faith and get you to
blame God. Job didn't. Now, what was
Job's story? I'm going to now wrap it
up. I promise you, and I'll take your
questions, but I had to do this. Job's
pain, you know what his pain was? It
wasn't so much that he lost his
children, seven sons and three
daughters. He lost his money and he got
sick. He wants to know why does God hate
me? It wasn't Job complaining out of I
lost everything because God said he
passed the test, didn't he? He goes in
all this in so what was his pain? Why do
you hate me? Why did you turn against
me? All this
time I thought that you were pleased
with me,
but the things that are happening to me,
I don't understand what could cause you
to hate me and destroy me this way. He
was
heartbroken. Why God? See, that's why I
say when I read the story, kills me. He
didn't know. Why God? I thought you were
my
friend and I
thought that you love me. Why do you
hate me so much? What did I do for you
to hate
me? God doesn't hate him. But now God
shows up. Now here's the lesson. But now
what the lesson you for you? He shows up
in Job 38 goes you wanted to meet me,
right? Okay, I'm here now. Job. From Job
38-41, God asked him a series of
questions. And I'm going to explain to
you why. Job, gird up your lines. Now,
we're going to have an audience. We're
going to speak face to face. You thought
all this time that I did this to you and
I hated you, but you don't understand.
Now, before I answer and justify myself,
I'm going to ask you a series of
questions. If you can answer, then you
have a right to judge me. And he says,
"Were you there when I laid the
foundation here?" No. Do you know how
the clouds are formed? Do you know where
lightning comes from? Do you know how
the stars were set in place? Do you know
where snow comes from? Do you know any
of this? No. What is he trying to
say? I am infinitely wiser than you. I
know more than you can
imagine. Why then sit in judgment of me?
Why not trust me in my wisdom that what
I did there was a good reason for me to
do it. Why then automatically assume I
hate you? Now God never gives Job the
answer. He never told Job why you know
why this happened. We were given the
answer. You know what the answer was? If
God were to tell Job, he didn't get the
answer. Read it. He never tells him. The
story of Job is this is what God would
have said to Job.
Job, Satan came to accuse you and said
that you didn't love me and he wanted to
slander you and cause angels to doubt
you. I came to your defense because
that's what friends do. Friends have
each other's
back. When he attacked my friend, I did
what a good friend would do. Come to
your aid, to your defense. No, Martin's
not like that. You're a liar. I know
Martin. How dare you slander him. Job, I
came to defend your honor in heaven. God
defending his honor. Who the hell is Job
for God to even waste his time?
That's the story. Job, I'm more of a
friend than you can imagine. I am the
best friend anyone could have because
when he attacked you, my friend, I came
to your defense and I had your back. Job
is not like that. Don't you dare slander
my friend. That's the story of Job. But
what's the story for you? When you go
through hell, don't you be like Job. God
hates me. God says, "No, trust me.
Something is
happening for this to happen, but I got
your back because I'm your friend and
I'll never leave nor forsake you."
That's the message of Job. That's what
Jesus says right here. So now you
understand Job and how it applies to
your life. So when you're going through
hell, don't be like, "God, why did you
didn't you learn
already? There's a Satan. There are
demons. There are evil forces that are
going to mess up your life to get you to
doubt me. Don't you know me already that
I love you and I loved you so much that
I chose to die in order to have you than
live without you? What more can I do to
show you?" Don't doubt. Trust. That's
the message. And Jesus says, "Not only
Job is his friend, you can be his friend
too." Right
here. John 15:12-15. Ready? That's the
message. John 15:12-15. This is my
commandment that you love one another
just as I've loved you. Look, greater
love has no one than this, that one lay
down his life for his friends. You are
my Look, he didn't say you're my slaves.
No, no, no. You're more than that. You
are my
friends if you do what I command you. No
longer do I call you slaves. For the
slave does not know what his master is
doing, but I've called you friends. For
all things that I've heard from my
father, I have made known to you. Jesus
is saying, I'm your best
friend and I love you and I'll never
allow anyone to slander you. Trust me, I
got your back.
That's the message. So that I hope that
answered your question. I took over an
hour to answer, but I had to.
That was incredible. I just wanted to
that's that was a beautiful way to say I
never I never think of it I I mean not
that I could but I never thought of it
that